Armenia is an ancient country. 
Armenia is known for its beautiful landscapes, its cuisine, culture and history. Since Armenia was the first country to officially adopt Christianity, you can find some of the world's oldest churches and monasteries located in the extremely beautiful natural settings.
Armenians are proud that their homeland is the location of Mount Ararat, which may have been the resting place of Noah's ark after the flood, and other Biblical events. As the unique Armenian alphabet developed in the 5th century, so did a flowering of Christian religious literature.
India, country that occupies the greater part of South Asia. Its capital is New Delhi, built in the 20th century just south of the historic hub of Old Delhi to serve as India’s administrative centre.
Armenians invented:
Automated Teller Machine (ATM) Before 1960s, people used to carry cash with them or withdraw money only by going to the banks. 
Delta Faucet. 
Coffee Vending Machine. 
Ice Cream Cone Rolling Machine. 
Hand-Held Hair Dryer. 
Color Television.
Armenia is the first country to adopt Christianity.
It is known from archaeological evidence that a highly sophisticated urbanized culture—the Indus civilization—dominated the northwestern part of the subcontinent from about 2600 to 2000 BCE.
Armenia has its own alphabet.
Armenia is home to the world's oldest winery.
Armenia has a record-breaking cable car.
Yerevan is one of the oldest cities in the world.
Throughout its history, India was intermittently disturbed by incursions from beyond its northern mountain wall.
Khachatur Abovyan, Author and Intellectual.
Galvanized Eastern Armenian as a separate dialect.
Hovannes Adamian, Pioneer of Color Television.
Developed the tricolor principle eventually used to create color television. 	
Cardinal Grigor Petros XV Agagianian, Candidate for Pope.
The second Armenian in the Church’s 2,000-year-long history to be made a cardinal.
Vittoria Aganoor, Poet.
One of the most respected female Italian writers.

Andre Agassi, Tennis Star.
 The only male tennis player in history to achieve a Career Super Grand Slam.

Ivan Aivazovsky, Painter.
 The most renowned artist of seascapes in history.

Armen Alchian, Founder of the “UCLA Tradition” of Economics.
 One of the most prominent economists of the 20th century.

Brothers Abraham and Artyom Alikhanian: Nuclear Physicists.
 Together, they founded the Armenian Academy of Sciences.

 Diana Apcar, First Female Diplomat.
 The honorary consul of the first Republic of Armenia to Japan.

 Levon Aronian, Chess Grandmaster.
 Fourth highest-rated chess player in history.

 George Avakian, Jazz Producer, Manager and Industry Executive.
 Created the first jazz album and the established the 12” LP format as industry standard. 

 Charles Aznavour: Singer, Actor, Humanitarian.
 One of France’s most popular singers.

 Arno Babajanian, Renowned Soviet Composer.
 Awarded the honor of People’s Artist of the USSR.

 Boris Babayan, Supercomputer Pioneer.
 The Soviet counterpart of the American supercomputer developer Seymour Cray.

 Ben Bagdikian, Journalist, Author and Media Critic.
 Winner of the Pulitzer Prize and Peabody Award.

 Giorgio Baglivi, Groundbreaking Anatomist.
 Insisted on using observation and reason as the means to establish knowledge and procedure.

 Peter Balakian, Pulitzer Prize-Winning Poet.
 Awarded the Pulitzer Prize in 2016 for his book of poetry “Ozone Journal.” 

 Albert Boghossian: High-End Jeweler, Businessman, Philanthropist.
 Benefactors of many philanthropic projects through their Boghossian Foundation. 

 Gerard Cafesjian: Businessman, Philanthropist.
 A successful publishing executive. 

 Vahan Cardashian, Founder of first Armenian-American Lobby.
 Lobbied the United States for the creation of an independent Armenian state and established ACIA, a precursor to ANCA.

 Yeghishe (Soghomonian) Charents, Greatest Eastern Armenian Poet.
 A leading voice of the Armenian Nation.

 Cher: Entertainer, Philanthropist, Human Rights Activist.
 One of the bestselling recording artists of all time.

 Giacomo Luigi Ciamician, Scientist.
 Father of organic photochemistry and a prophet of solar energy.

 Raymond Vahan Damadyan: Scientist, Inventor.
 The visionary inventor of the first magnetic scanning machine, now known as MRI.

 Anna Der-Vartanian, First Female Master Chief Petty Officer in U.S. Navy.
 Remembered for blazing a path for women in the United States military.

 George Deukmejian: Former Governor of California.
 Potential US vice president candidate and ally of the anti-apartheid movement.

 Patrick Devedjian: Politician.
 French politician who has held several elective and appointed positions, from minister to parliamentarian to mayor.

 Hrant Dink, Journalist and Human Rights Activist.
 Founder and editor of the Agos newspaper in Turkey, gunned down for his work.

 Richard Donchian, Pioneer of Technical Commodity Trading.
 Founded Futures, Inc., one of the first publicly-held commodity funds.

 Atom Egoyan: Filmmaker.
 Nominated for two Academy Awards, including for Best Director. 

 Dame Sian Seerpoohi Elias: Chief Justice of New Zealand.
 First female Chief Justice in New Zealand. 

 Joseph (Hovsep) Emin, Founder of the Armenian National Movement.
 Dedicated his life to petitioning for freedom of Armenia.

 Eduardo Eurnekian: Businessman, Investor.
 One of the wealthiest individuals in South America. 

 Larry Gagosian, World’s Most Powerful Art Dealer.
 The man behind the world-famous Gagosian Galleries.

 Ivan Galamian, World-Renowned Violin Instructor.
 Taught some of the best violinists in the world.

 George (Georgy) Garanian, Pioneer of Russian Jazz.
 Awarded the highest prize in the Soviet Union for art.

 Carla Garapedian: Journalist, Documentary Filmmaker.
 Former journalist for the BBC and the only American ever to anchor its BBC World News. 

 Arshile Gorky, Great American Artist of the 20th Century.
 A major figure in surrealism and one of the founders of abstract expressionism.

 Ara Guler, Photojournalist.
 Turkey’s most renowned photographer.

 Viktor (Ambartsumian) Hambartsumian: Theoretical Astrophysicist.
 Founded the Byurakan Observatory in Armenia, an important center of astronomical research. 

 Heraclius, Byzantine Emperor.
 Reorganized the empire and strengthened its military.

 Flora Zabelle (Mangasarian) Hitchcock, Broadway Actress and Silent Film Star.
 One of the first stars of American silent film.

 Ashkhen Hovakimian (Agnes Joaquim), Creator of Singapore’s National Flower.
 A prominent horticulturist and the first woman to create the first hybrid orchid.

 Alan Hovnaness: Composer.
 An original and prolific artist in 20th century America. 

 Hovnanian Brothers: Businessmen.
 The four Hovnanian brothers – Jirair, Kevork, Hirair and Vahak – are staples in the homebuilding world. 

 Allen and Albert Hughes: Film Directors, Producers, Screenwriters.
 Debuted with their first feature film at the age of 21 to great critical acclaim.

 David Ignatius: Journalist, Author.
 A well-known foreign affairs journalist for the Washington Post and author of several books. 

 Paul Ignatius, U.S. Secretary of Navy.
 Highest-ranking Armenian-American military official in U.S. history.

 Shavarash Karapetyan, World Champion and Life-Saving Hero.
 Seventeen-time world champion finswimmer and fearless savior of many lives.

 Yousuf Karsh: Photographer.
  Known for his portraits of Winston Churchill, Ernest Hemingway, Mother Teresa, Walt Disney, Audrey Hepburn, Muhammad Ali, Fidel Castro and Dwight Eisenhower, among many others. 

 Garry Kasparov, Chessmaster.
 Considered by many to be the greatest chess player of all time.

 Anna Kazanjian Longobardo: Engineer.
 First woman to receive a Bachelor of Science degree in mechanical engineering from Columbia University; original charter student member of Society of Women Engineers; first woman to receive the Egleston Medal.

 Howard Kazanjian, Film Producer.
 Produced “Star Wars” and “Indiana Jones.”

 Varaztad Kazanjian, Founding Father of Modern Plastic Surgery.
 The first professor of plastic surgery at Harvard Medical School.

 Udi Hrant Kenkulian, Oud Musician.
 A blind oudist well-known to fans of folk music in Turkey.

 Kirk Kerkorian, Investor, Casino Mogul, Philanthropist.
 Created the Las Vegas we know today.

 Jack Kevorkian, Doctor and Human Rights Activist.
 A pioneer and advocate of the “right-to-die” movement known as “Dr. Death.”

 Aram Khachaturian: Composer.
 Authored several compositions, including the “Gayane” ballet, which was used in the Stanley Kubrick film “2001: A Space Odyssey.” Some of his other famous works are “Sabre Dance” and “Spartacus.”

 Kenneth Khachigian: Speechwriter, Political Activist.
 A political strategist who has served as an adviser on nine presidential campaigns. 

 Mkrtich Khrimyan (Hayrig), Leader of the Armenian Liberation Movement.
 As catholicos he gave authority and energy to the idea that Armenians should be free, playing no small part in their eventual liberation.

 Komitas (Soghomon Soghomonian), Pioneer of ethnomusicology and Creator of Armenian National School of Music.
 Instrumental in recording and saving vast swathes of Armenian culture that may have otherwise been lost.

 Andranik “Andy” Madadian, International Pop Superstar.
 Alternatively referred to as the “Prince of Persia,” the “Elvis of Persia” and Iran’s “King of Pop.”

 Rouben Mamoulian, Film and Theater Director.
 Recipient of Directors Guild of America Lifetime Achievement Award and director of one of the first movies with sound.

 Alex Manoogian: Businessman, Inventor, Philanthropist.
 The inventor of the Delta faucet.

 Missak Manouchian, Revolutionary Leader of French Resistance Against Nazis.
 A poet opposed to violence until arrested and imprisoned for being a communist.

 Alexander Mantashev (Mantashyan), Businessman, Philanthropist.
 An oil baron and one of the wealthiest men of the early 20th century.

 Mesrop Mashtots, Inventor of Armenian and Other Alphabets.
 The alphabet was the key that allowed Armenians to preserve their culture and identity, thus lending them exceptional longevity.

 Monte “Avo” Melkonian, Commander of Artsakh War for Independence.
 Came to emobody a unified Armenian Nation.

 Anastas Mikoyan, Soviet Deputy Prime Minister.
 One of highest-ranking officials who served - and survived - four secretaries general.

 Kevork Nalbandian, Composer of Ethiopian National Anthem.
 Director of the orphan choir known as the “Arba Lijoch.”

 Narses, Byzantine General, Conqueror and Ruler of Italy.
 Expelled the Goths and reestablished Emperor Justinian’s rule.

 Nubar Pasha, First Prime Minister of Egypt.
 Instrumental in laying the foundation of the independent Egyptian state.

 Garegin Nzhdeh (Ter-Harutyunyan), Armenian National Hero, Commander and Philosopher.
 Shaped an ideology that continues to influence Armenian thinkers, politicians and leaders to this day.

 Israel Ori, Early leader of Armenian Liberation Movement.
 A dedicated proponent of the liberation of Armenians from Ottoman and Persian rule.

 Andranik Ozanian, Famed Military Commander.
 The “General of the Armenians” who fought during Genocide and the First Republic and raised funds for Armenian war refugees.

 Charlie Papazian, Pioneer of Home-Brewing and Craft Beer Movement.
 Authored “The Complete Joy of Homebrewing,” a work that sparked the craft beer revolution.

 Sergei Parajanov (Sarkis Parajanian), Master Film Director.
 One of the most acclaimed directors of the Soviet Union.

 Haig Patigian, San Franciscan Sculptor.
 Created several famous works of art that adorn buildings, parks and museum halls.

 Tigran Petrosian: Chess Grandmaster.
 World chess champion for seven consecutive years.

 Alain Prost, Champion Formula 1 Race-Car Driver.
 Crowned champion four times.

 Raffi (Hakob Melik Hakobyan), Writer in the Armenian Liberation Movement.
 Credited with initiating what would later come to be known as the “Zartonk,” or “Awakening,” during which Armenians reasoned toward the necessity of a free Armenian state.

 Sue Sarafian Jehl: Military Officer.
 A decorated officer in the Women’s Auxiliary Army Corps of the United States Army. 

 William Saroyan: Author.
 Published dozens of novels, short stories and plays, including “The Human Comedy,” “The Daring Young Man on the Flying Trapeze,” “My Name is Aram,” “The Time of Your Life.”

 Arturo Sarukhan: Diplomat.
 The ambassador of Mexico to the United States.

 Sayat Nova (Harutyun Sayatyan), Bard of the Caucasus.
 Renowned for the timeless music he created.

 Mkhitar Sebastatsi, Scholar and Intellectual.
 Established the Mekhitarist Order, an exclusively Armenian subsidiary within the Catholic Church.

 Luther George Simjian, Inventor of the Automated Teller Machine (ATM).
 The prolific mastermind behind the ATM, exercise bikes and color x-rays.

 Jackie Speier, United States Congresswoman.
 Representative for California's 14th congressional district.

 Dikran Tahta, Mathematics Teacher.
 The man who taught and inspired Stephen Hawking.

 Serj Tankian: Singer-Songwriter and Political Activist.
 Propelled to fame with the success of "System of a Down," Tankian led the effort in leveraging the band’s worldwide renown for the cause of Armenian Genocide recognition. 

 Jerry Tarkanian, College Basketball Coach.
 Registered one of the highest winning percentages, 6th all-time, in the sport.

 Soghomon Tehlirian, Assassin of Chief Organizer of Armenian Genocide.
 Killed Mehmet Talaat Pasha in Berlin as part of “Operation Nemesis.”

 Alenush Terian, Iran’s First Female Astronomer and Astrophysicist.
 A founder of the solar observatory at the Institute of Geophysics at the University of Tehran.

 Tigran the Great, King.
 Ruler of Greater Armenia, the strongest state east of the Roman Republic.

 Arto Tuncboyaciyan: Musician, Songwriter.
 Grammy Award-winning folk musician renowned for his avant-garde style.

 Henri Verneuil, Film Director.
 Nominated for a Palme d’Or and Academy Award, winner of a César.

 Zabel Yessayan, Leading Female Writer of Armenian Awakening Period.
 The only woman on the Young Turk list of Armenians to be deported and killed on April 24, 1915.

 Krikor Zohrab, Lawyer, Writer, Ottoman Parliamentarian.
 An imposing and defiant voice of the Armenian community in the Ottoman Empire.

Jirayr Zorthian, the Last Bohemian.
An artist and significant figure in the history of Los Angeles art scene, owner of the Zorthian Ranch.